Hello everyone. Welcome to a new episode of The
Dissenter. I'm your host, as always, Ricard Lops, and
today I'm joined by Doctor Nathan King. He's professor
of philosophy and Edward B. Lindeman endowed chair at
Whitworth University. And today we're talking about his book,
The Excellent Mind, Intellectual Virtues for Everyday Life. So
Doctor King, welcome to the show. It's a huge
pleasure to everyone.
Thanks so much for having me.
So, uh, what is the premise of your book
and what motivated you to write it?
Yeah, great. So, I think probably the best way
to answer that would be to say a little
bit about the book's kind of origin story. So
I can remember when I was a grad student
just getting ready to, to go on to the
job markets, I had to write a statement of
teaching philosophy. And I started thinking about You know,
how does this process, if it pans out well,
how does it look for the students, right? What
are the, what are the good results of an
education? And so I thought, well, students should graduate
with a good deal of knowledge that, that seems
to be central to education. But knowledge couldn't be
enough. So anyone who's taken a final exam knows
that, you know, about 2 weeks after the exam,
we remember quite a bit less than, than we
learned in studying for the exam. So we forget
our knowledge. Uh, THERE'S also the notion of um
connecting some bits of knowledge to other bits and
notice that you could have a lot of knowledge
and not have any good idea about how to
connect it. Um, AND so it seemed like knowledge
wouldn't be, wouldn't be enough for a complete education.
Uh, THERE'S also the fact that you could employ
knowledge to, to unwise ends. And so I thought
a little bit more and I thought, well, maybe
skills. People seem to be talking a lot about
critical thinking skills as a good outcome of a
college education. So maybe that's a part of it
and, and that seems right as well. But we've
all known people who employ their intellectual skills to,
to bad ends or maybe selfish ends. So maybe
they, they do it to look smart in front
of others, or they do this to kind of
get their way in, in many ways that are
manipulative. You can imagine a demagogue having some intellectual
skills, but, but putting those skills to sort of
bad use. So what's an educational aim that that
can't be put to bad use? Well, virtues. Virtues
can't be put to bad use. And at the
time I was writing this purpose statement, I was
also reading. Work in this field in philosophy called
virtue epistemology, which is a, a branch of the
theory of knowledge. Epistemology is the theory of knowledge.
Virtue epistemology is a branch of epistemology that gives
the notion of an intellectual virtue a fundamental role.
So virtues like curiosity and intellectual carefulness and intellectual
humility are the kinds of things that at least
some virtue epistemologists would, would emphasize. And I thought,
oh, that, that kind of gives me the vocabulary
and the framework I need for talking about. Good
educational outcomes, but I hope that, uh, you know,
whatever else they get from my classes, students leave
having made progress in virtues like curiosity and open-mindedness,
fair-mindedness, and the like of that. So there the
kind of the. The origin of my thinking about
this, uh, had to do with writing this purpose
statement on the one hand and then reading works
in virtue epistemology by people like Linda Zezebski and
Robert Roberts and Jay Wood and Jason Bear and
Heather Baddely, and many others. And there was this
sort of happy, happy confluence there. Uh, AND then
as I, as I got a little further along
in my career, it became clear that, that though
there were some, some very good works. Um, YOU
know, that, that addressed intellectual virtues for students sort
of briefly. Uh, THERE wasn't enough out there that
was directed primarily towards students. And so I thought,
well, maybe there's an opportunity to, to write something
that's, that's pitched primarily toward a, a student audience
or, or a lay audience, uh, so that, so
that everybody can, can reap the benefits from this
excellent work in virtue epistemology that, uh, that so
many scholars were producing, so.
Uh, SO let me just ask you just to
clarify this point. So you're focusing on epistemology and
more specifically on virtue epistemology, but there's also virtue
ethics. So do you think that by focusing on
the epistemological side of things, some of these virtues
could also manifest, or are you also interested in
how they could manifest, uh, morally as well?
Yes, I'm, I'm interested in, in both of those
topics. And though I think we can make a
distinction in theory between intellectual virtues and moral virtues,
I think in practice, these sets of virtues overlap
in all kinds of interesting ways. So, I mean,
if we're, if we're going to draw a distinction
between intellectual and moral virtues, I think a good
way to do it is the way that the
philosopher Alan Wilson has done it. And so if
I recall correctly, The distinction goes something like this.
Well, intellectual virtues. Aim distinctively at intellectual ends like
knowledge and truth and understanding, moral virtues aim at
distinctively moral ends, so you might think of, you
know, justice or the alleviation of suffering or or
something like that. Uh, SO, uh, and that seems
right to me, right? Whatever else they aim at,
intellectual virtues must aim at intellectual goods. Whereas it
seems like moral goods don't, don't have to aim
at, um, at intellectual goods. Now, I have to
say this is disputed territory. There are, there are
some prominent philosophers who refuse to draw a hard
distinction between intellectual and moral virtues. You know, so
if you think as, as Linda Zezebski does, that
the true is, is part of the good and
that morality is the study of the good, then
you'll be less inclined to draw, um, you know,
anything like a hard distinction there. So, you know,
my position is something like this. Uh, IF there
is a hard distinction to be drawn there, uh,
the way to do it is by looking at
the different sorts of goods. Um, BUT in practice,
again, I think most virtue theorists agree that these,
these sets of virtues are going to overlap.
Yes, I mean, I, I think that one obvious
virtue that, um, I mean, overlaps between epistemology and
morality or ethics is courage, right? We have both
intellectual courage and moral courage,
right? Yeah, we can identify clear cases of that.
And often in the same, in the same person,
we think about a civil rights leader like Martin
Luther King Junior, you know, so there you have.
Moral courage as he's he's willing to face all
kinds of harms in. In in fostering a moral
cause, but as he does this, he's affirming certain
truths and trying to convey certain bits of knowledge
in the face of threats as well. So these,
these dovetail. Together. Uh, ANOTHER kind of example that,
that, um, that literally comes home to me is
the virtue of attentiveness, right? Attentiveness as an intellectual
virtue. As I think of those moments when I
fail to love my family well, for instance, I
think many of those moments are just moments when
I'm, I'm failing to pay attention. So there's a
kind of intellectual error, intellectual faults. That's part of
the root of my failure to do this moral
thing, you know, love my family well.
Mhm. Yes, that's another great example, but tell us
then, what is an excellent mind? Explain perhaps the
title of your book. What do you mean by
that?
Yeah, so there are lots of, lots of factors
that would go into having an excellent mind. And
I don't want to exclude those factors. So I
do think knowledge is important. I do think intellectual
skill is important. But among the things that I
think, um, Has to be discussed here are the
intellectual virtues. And one way to kind of test
to see if intellectual virtues are part of an
excellent mind is the sort of linguistic test, right?
So, so think of a sentence like this. Uh,
Jones has an excellent mind, but is not very
careful, or Jones has an excellent mind but is
arrogant, uh, and not humble, or Jones has an
excellent mind but isn't open-minded. Uh, TO me, those,
those sentences have a kind of dissonance to them.
They're, they're like the, you know, the intellectual equivalent
of a, a fork and a garbage disposal or
something. They just, they make the wrong, they make
the wrong sounds. And that's at least some evidence
that These intellectual virtues are important for having an
excellent mind. Maybe another way to see this is
to think about people we already see as having
excellent minds. Maybe you think of Newton or Galileo
or Kepler, or think about, uh, you know, the
American suffrage movements and the, the excellence that people
like Susan B. Anthony display. In giving these arguments
for suffrage, as we start to unpack the excellence
that those people display, I think we start using
virtue language. Oh, right, Galileo was curious or, you
know, Newton. Uh, HIS genius was underwritten by this
kind of, uh, perseverance in inquiry that, um, that
few of us ever approached. So I think, you
know, another way to think about an excellent mind
is to just start with concrete cases and then
start to describe them in detail, and I think
intellectual virtues kind of fall out of that conversation
pretty naturally.
I mean, and I guess that having an excellent
mind doesn't entail having a flawless mind, right, because
I mean it's inevitable that everyone will make mistakes
and errors here and there. I mean, even when
thinking about Newton, who is certainly one of the
Uh, best minds we've ever had in humanity in
our human history. I mean, uh, Einstein ended up
improving on his, uh, theory of gravity. We now
have a better understanding of how gravity works through
the world. Of Einstein than we did through the
work of Newton. So I mean we all have
limitations and it's just inevitable, inevitable that even if,
if we have all of these intellectual virtues, we
are limited and we will make some mistakes, right?
That seems precisely right to me. Yes. So 11
way to see this kind of point is to
notice that intellectual virtues can come in degrees. So
it's not just, you know, to, you know, to
use the example of a light switch, it's not
just as if we have an on-off switch here.
Instead, we have like a dimmer switch. It can
be on or off, but then once it's on,
it can be brighter or dimmer, right? Um, AND
even our, even our brightest light that we have
in our home isn't maximally bright. So, so I
think the intellectual virtues and, and moral virtues work
like that, right? There's a, there's a kind of
threshold or excellence, uh, beyond which we count as
having the virtue, and then we can have it
to a greater or lesser degree. Um, IT'S also
important to note, I think, uh, so that we
don't feel too badly about ourselves, that, that we
can fail to have the virtues. We can fail
to have intellectual virtues. And still sometimes act in
ways that are characteristic of virtues, right? So we
can have at least moments where we think virtuously,
right, where we think courageously or where we think
with perseverance or open-mindedness, even if we don't quite
have the virtues. And so as we think of
our own aims, and I'm developing this thought from
the work of Jason Beer, what we should really
be hoping for is meaningful growth, right toward these,
toward these virtues. Also important to note that lacking
these virtues doesn't entail that we have the corresponding
vices, right? So if I, if I fail to
be intellectually courageous, that doesn't automatically mean, you know,
I'm an intellectual coward. It might mean that I'm
somewhere in between virtue and vice. All kinds of
layers of complexity here. And you know, even the
most virtuous among us will have room for growth.
Uh, EVEN those who are struggling will have moments
where we exhibit virtue, um, at least, you know,
temporarily.
Yeah, we're going to explore each of the virtues
you talk about in your book and also the
corresponding vices, but let me just ask you a
couple of questions that might whose answer might seem
obvious, but perhaps it's not. So why does truth
matter? I mean, why should we care about truth?
Yeah, why should we care about truth? Well, I
mean, the first thing I'll note here is, is
we should ask, um, is there any really serious
argument that that we shouldn't? That we shouldn't care
about truth. And, uh, I mean, one thing that
we notice as we think about what an argument
would look like, right, its conclusion is, you know,
therefore, we shouldn't care about truth. It seems like
the person giving that argument would want us to
care about at least one truth, namely that we
shouldn't care about the truth. And so there's a
kind of strange self-defeat going on there. But, but
more positively. I think this is just kind of
a human thing, right? We desire what Linda Zezebski
calls cognitive contact with reality. This is a, this
is a human good that we all find ourselves
desiring. Aristotle says all humans by nature desire to
know. So, I mean, this is one of those
things that we could argue about, uh, you know,
whether we should care about truth. But we might
be in a situation where any premises that we
appeal to are already kind of less plausible than
what we already know in our bones, which is
that, well, we should care. We should care about
the truth. Uh, NOW, if we have to go
and, and give an argument, uh, I mean, one
way to do it would be to imagine someone
that's, that's wholly out of contact with reality. And
ask if they're flourishing. Uh, AT least for my
part, it's, it's hard for me to imagine a
person who's wholly out of contact with reality, who's
flourishing in any sense that we would respect. And
if that's the case, it seems to follow that,
that we should care about truth if we care
about our flourishing.
And let me also ask you, why do intellectual
virtues matter? I mean, what do we need them
for exactly?
Yeah, what do we need them for? I, I
love the way you put that, right? They're, if
they're important, they're, they're, they're going to be important
for something. And I think there are a number
of areas we could consider here. So we might
consider our, our personal relationships. And it seems to
me that, you know, as I consider interactions with
people around me, as I consider my friendships, uh,
those are going to go better if I have
virtues like humility and curiosity and attentiveness and open-mindedness
than if I'm arrogant or if I'm close-minded to,
uh, those around me or if I'm indifferent to,
to what they think and so on. So these,
these intellectual virtues, in my view, can aid. Interpersonal
relationships. We might also think about Civil discourse and
the functioning of democracy. And, and notice that one
thing that we need for democracy to function well
is the ability to deliberate. Think about all the,
all the, all the complex issues about which we
have to form policies in order to get by.
So think about policies related to climate change or
uh social strife or, uh, you know, we've, we've
fairly recently, uh, finished up a pandemic, right? What
do we need? To form policies about these things.
Well, it, it seems like we need to be
able to deliberate well. And deliberating well seems to
require asking the right questions, seeking good answers, thinking
for ourselves, right, with autonomy, but not necessarily by
ourselves because we don't have all the information we
need as individuals. This has to be a collaborative
kind of effort. These issues are complex and very
difficult. We can get into falsehood and irrationality very
easily. So we'll need to be attuned to our
intellectual limitations. So we'll need humility and so on.
So I think just as we think about what
it takes for a democracy to function, it requires
deliberation and good deliberation, especially consistently across time, seems
like it's going to require intellectual virtues. Uh, ONE
other area I'll mention, and this is what got
me into discussing this, uh, set of virtues is
education, right? So if, if we think about how
education is supposed to pan out, it seems to
me that, you know, we really want our students
to graduate with these intellectual virtues. Um, ONE way
to see this, there's this wonderful line. Uh, FROM
this American scholar Judith Shapiro, she says, you know,
students, you want the inside of your head to
be an interesting place to live the rest of
your life. I love that line. You want the
inside of your head to be an interesting place
to live the rest of your life. Uh, AND
it just seems to me that, that for a
mind to be that kind of place, uh, the
mind's going to have to take on a certain
character, right? A mind that is curious and careful
and humble and open, uh, is going to be
more interesting than a place that's closed off and
arrogant or, uh, indifferent.
So it's certainly not the case that people should
assume that intellectual virtues are only good for people
who do intellectual work like academics, philosophers, scientists, and
so on. I mean, first of all, it's not
even the case that only people who are professional.
Intellectuals can benefit from these virtues because even if
you're just uh let's say someone who likes to
learn by themselves, you can benefit from them, but
also they can have an important role to play
in even your personal life and as your life
as a citizen politically and socially,
correct? I think that's, I think that's right, yeah,
and maybe one way to see this. WOULD be
to think of the role of, of intellectual virtues
in a, in a profession that's outside of the
academy. So, um, You know, I, I grew up
in a home where most of my relatives uh
were uh in trades. So my, um, My father
made signs for most of his career. My grandfather
was a carpenter. Um, MY whole family, you know,
works on, on automobiles. And if we think about,
you know, all the, all the ways in which
being inattentive or, or being careless in, uh, finding
an explanation for, you know, why my car isn't
working, right, as we think about these kinds of
scenarios. We see the relevance of the intellectual virtues.
To my shame, I was, I was doing some
rudimentary carpentry, right, trying to carry on the family
tradition. And I was inattentive, right? I, I, I
measured incorrectly and I, so I cut the wood
on the box that I was making incorrectly. There's
this saying carpenters have measured twice, cut once, and
I failed to be attentive. And so, uh, you
know, there was an area where, you know, though
I'm an academic, you know, my lack of intellectual
virtue failed me, so.
So before we get into which of the virtues
in the book you talk about three features of
intellectual virtues, namely the thinking component, the motivational component,
and the behavioral component. So tell us about each
of them and why did you come up with
these 3 different components.
Yeah, great. So I mean I should say, in
discussing these components, I'm kind of just following tradition.
In virtue theory more generally and um in the
study of intellectual character virtues, more specifically, so you
know, I'm following work by people like Linda Zezebski
and Robert Robertson, Jay Wood, uh, Jason Bear, Heather
Baddeley, and so on. So this isn't, you know,
unique to me, uh, but, uh, people talk about,
uh, virtues in general and intellectual virtues in particular
as having these different components. To signal that these
are really kind of what we might call multifaceted
or multi-tracked dispositions, and intellectual virtue is not just
a way of thinking. It's not just a motivation.
It's not just a set of intellectual behaviors, it's
dispositions of all those sorts together. So one way
to see this is to think of an example.
So, I mean, you might think of someone who's
intellectually honest. Maybe you think of Abraham Lincoln, who's
also morally honest, if we want to draw that
distinction. So think about uh the way Lincoln thinks
about truth and um and values it. So, he
thinks that truth should be respected. He thinks he
shouldn't. Distort the facts of the case. Uh, HE,
he believes that, that truth is valuable, right? So
that's sort of a bit about the thinking component.
Or we could think about the feeling component or
some people talk about just this as a, as
a motivational component. Um, MORE broadly, So Lincoln is
motivated to get at the truth. He wants it.
He wants to avoid falsehood. As he seeks to
achieve true belief and then as he seeks to
convey the truth to others. And then he disdains,
disdains lying and liars, right? So there's this kind
of motivational slash affective component to, to that virtue
of honesty. And then when we think about the
behavioral components, he's disposed to tell the truth and
not to lie. To have the virtue is to
have all of these components together. And not just
to have them for a moment, but to have
them consistently across time and space and situation.
So let me just ask you, uh, I'm curious
about this. I don't know if you ever thought
about this specifically or not, but of course when
we're talking about virtues and that's something that we
can go all the way back to Aristotle, I
understand them as something that we can develop. We
can put. Effort into developing each of these virtues,
but do you think that there are perhaps some
people who are just innately more predisposed to showing
these virtues than others and have to put in
less effort into developing them.
Yeah, I think that's, that's probably right, at least,
at least for certain, for certain aspects of these
virtues. So there are some people who are, uh,
maybe genetically or maybe by, by way of early
childhood development, sort of more disposed to be afraid
than others are, uh, or less disposed to be
afraid. So, you know, think about those two people,
one who's kind of naturally. Uh, FEARFUL and one
who's naturally, you know, without fear or isn't bothered
by fear. There's a, there's a way in which,
uh, the person who isn't really bothered by fear
won't have to work as hard to develop the
virtue of courage, um, but that's just one component
of courage. Notice that even the person who doesn't,
uh, you know, find herself afraid a lot will
have to develop the kind of thinking or judgment
component. Of courage, right? So, someone who isn't naturally
afraid could exhibit the vice of rashness pretty easily
by making bad judgments about, you know, which things
should be feared and at what times and in
what ways and to what degrees, so. I, I
think you're right that, that for some people, some
of these virtues will tend to be easier to
acquire than for others, but, but all of us
will, because these virtues are, are, first of all,
excellences and second of all, uh, multi-track dispositions, uh,
there's probably going to be work for all of
us to do.
So let's talk about the virtues themselves then. Uh,
WHAT is a curiosity?
Yeah. So at least as I think of it,
I think of curiosity as the virtue that we
need to manage our intellectual appetite well. So, each
intellectual virtue. Concerns its own. Area of activity or,
or uh some people put it, uh, I think
Jason Bear puts it this way, its own special
skill. So, what's the area of activity when it
comes to curiosity? I think it's managing our intellectual
appetite. And so here, notice that just as we
can manage our intellectual or manage our, our physical
appetite well, our appetite for, for food and drink,
we can appetite, and we can manage that well
or poorly, we can do the same when it
comes to our intellectual appetite. So just as we
might be insensitive to the kind of food that
we need to nourish our bodies, so we could
be intellectually indifferent, right? That, that would be a
deficiency with respect to Uh, that area of, of
managing your appetite, uh, or. Just as we can
be gluttonous with respect to food, we could be
gluttonous with respect to our intellectual appetite. And so
just think of, um, you know, watching a bunch
of social media videos about silly things that don't
matter, or, you know, um, soaking up celebrity gossip
or something like that. Uh, THOSE are ways we
might You know, fulfill our intellectual appetite. Are they
good ways? It seems like, at least in a
lot of cases, maybe they're not. So, so intellectual
curiosity is what we might think of as the
mean between those extremes of on the one hand,
indifference and on the other hand, intellectual gluttony.
Well, let me just tell you that if you
are careful enough to properly curate your TikTok feed,
you can actually get a very good intellectual content
there as well.
I'm sure, yeah. Yeah, so it would be the
sort of thoughtless, uh, thoughtless feeling that we would
be concerned about. Yeah, yeah.
And what are the vices or the vice that
corresponds to the virtue of curiosity.
Yeah, so, so, there, again, I think the, the
vice of deficiency will be something like indifference, just,
just not caring about uh knowledge or not caring
about truth. The, the philosopher Tom Morris uh gives
this wonderful anecdote discussion with the students. So he,
he asks in class, what's the difference between ignorance
and indifference? And the student sort of in this
chippy voice says, I don't know and I don't
care, right? Well, that's exactly right, right? Ignorance is,
is not knowing, indifference is not caring. Uh, IT'S
the indifference that seems like it's the, the vice
of, of deficiency here, right? Uh, YOU, you don't
care enough to nourish your mind well. The, uh,
the opposite vice, the excess would be a, a
kind of intellectual gluttony, um, you know, where that
might involve consuming, um, Intellectual items that are um
irrelevant to um You know, the scope of knowledge
in general or, or at least the things that
are our business. It might involve seeking knowledge of
trivialities. Uh, YOU can think of all kinds of
cases, but the, the main point there is we're,
we're seeking knowledge thoughtlessly or without regard to, uh,
to what we really should be seeking, right? So
we should be seeking knowledge at least some of
the time, maybe much of the time about items
related to human flourishing. About um items that help
us gain a, a broader understanding of the world
and probably at least not so much knowledge of
trivialities or, or things that aren't, aren't our business
or, or, or, or right, you can fill out
the list there.
Yeah, I mean, it's interesting because when it comes
to the vice of excess, people like Schopenhauer and
Nietzsche even alerted people that they shouldn't read too
much. They should take their time to properly process.
WHAT they read and they should be selective in
terms of what they read because uh I mean
if you just don't put enough time aside to
really properly uh get deeply into what you read,
I mean, perhaps you're not gaining much with it,
right? Yeah, that's, that's, that's really great. That reminds
me of a stoic philosopher. I think it might
have been Seneca. Recommends that, you know, we, we
shouldn't read too broadly. Instead, we might be better
served to do something like pick 5 really good
books and, and learn them really well, right.
Uh, WHAT about the virtue of carefulness? What is
carefulness? Yeah, carefulness. So one way to think of
this is if we think of curiosity as the
virtue that pulls us toward intellectual goods. Carefulness is
the virtue that repels intellectual ills, so. You know,
falsehood, irrationality. Um, YOU know, um, things like that.
And so, so carefulness helps us to avoid thinking,
you know, hastily. It helps us to avoid latching
on to falsehoods too quickly. It helps us avoid
confusion and, and things like that.
Uh, AND what are then the vices of excess
and of defect of carefulness?
Yeah, so there, I mean, we might think of
the, the deficiency as a kind of, of carelessness,
right? So if we think about reasoning from evidence.
A paradigm case of carelessness will be someone who
draws a conclusion and is confident in that conclusion,
you know, on the basis of a really, you
know, narrow, uh, you know, body of evidence or
something like that. Someone who jumps to conclusions or
is, is hasty, that, those would be, you know,
the kinds of cases we have in mind for.
Carelessness. Uh, PEOPLE who are aware of a bunch
of cognitive biases, but sort of reason, you know,
straight ahead as if those biases didn't exist. Those
would be cases of, of carelessness. And then on
the other side, we might think of a kind
of, it's hard to think of the right word
for this, but maybe scrupulousness. So, so someone who
may be a case of this would be someone
who is, I don't know, defending a, a doctoral
thesis or something like this, and the person is
uh is so concerned to avoid error that, uh,
you know, they, they double check the dissertation 100
times, um, and are kind of perpetually refusing to,
to turn in the thesis and, and defend it.
Um, THAT might be a kind of, you know,
overly carefulness, right, scrupulousness, or, or someone who, I,
I got to confess, I've done this, rereads an
email about an important, unimportant topic. You know, several
times before sending it, that might be, OK, maybe
we don't need to be quite that careful.
Yeah, I, I mean when it comes to the
deficiency here, you mentioned the biases. It's interesting because
back in 2089, I had an interview with Dr.
Christopher Cheri, and he's a cognitive psychologist who works
on biases, and we talked about what is called
the bias blind spot, which Interestingly, there are people
who just because they memorize the biases that exist,
they think that they are then immune to them,
but actually they're not actually, sometimes they're even, they
fall even more for those biases just because they
think that memorizing them is enough.
That's right. That's right. And that's a really nice
case where Where, you know, intellectual vices might conspire
together and where we might need intellectual virtues to
work together in order to, to, to do better.
So, in that kind of case, you know, the
person might be failing to be careful, they might
also fail to be humble, right? So if you
think of humility as the virtue we need to,
to be aware of and to own our intellectual
limitations, it, it seems like the person who's, who's
aware of these biases. But then, you know, things
that they're, they're not prone to them might be
failing to be humble. Likewise, it seems like we
need to own our limitations in order to be
appropriately careful when it comes to situations where these
biases might arise.
So what is then autonomy? What, what does that
mean in this specific context?
Yeah, autonomy. One way I, I like to, to
talk about autonomy is to think about the, you
know, some, some prepositions, right? Some, some prepositional words.
So one way I like to put it is
autonomy requires that we think for ourselves, but not
that we think by ourselves. So think for ourselves
in the sense of taking responsibility for our own
thinking and our learning, the contents of our mind,
the development of our mind, but that doesn't mean
we should think by ourselves. To think by ourselves
would be to allow ourselves, I think, culpably, to
be isolated from the knowledge that other people have,
you know, unless we think that we're sort of
smarter than everyone else combined. Uh, WE should be
willing to rely on and even eager to rely
on knowledge that other people have. So, so one
way to see autonomy is, as a virtue between,
uh, the, the kind of excessive relying on ourselves
that we might characterize as a kind of intellectual
isolation, um, and then the deficiency of, of not
being willing to, to, uh, to be responsible for
our own, uh, our own thinking. Uh, SO, you
know, Uh, on the one hand, you, you might
think of a student who um. Displays or at
least acts in accordance with the deficiency, uh, you
know, when they come to, to your office and
they're like, just tell me what I need to
do to get an A on this assignment or
tell me exactly how I should do this. That
seems like the deficiency, uh, you know, we might
call that servility or something like that. And then
there's, on the other hand, the student who comes
into the office and talks to you for an
hour and then doesn't heed any of your advice
at all. That, that might be a kind of,
a kind of isolation.
Yeah. Do you think that when it comes to
autonomy we also should be careful, particularly when it
comes to an excess of autonomy, and perhaps that
will connect with the humility as well, but do
you think we should be careful because actually people
usually do not think alone. And are not good
at thinking alone and we get and we have
to be grateful to many other people who produce
their work and whose work we consume because I
mean we don't create the entire volume of knowledge
that we have that we consume and that we
And used to produce a little bit more knowledge,
right? So we, we really have to take into
account that we are always to a certain extent
dependent on others for our own thinking and knowledge,
right? Yes, I think that's right. That's right. And
you can find all kinds of really good work
and discussions of intellectual virtue about depending on others
or being a dependable. Uh, INTELLECTUAL agent. You might
look at the, the work of Ryan Beerly on,
on that being a dependable agent. One way I,
I, I especially like to, to illustrate this point
that we all rely on others is to think
of paradigm cases of intellectual autonomy and see that
even there people are relying to a significant extent
on others. So we might think of. Scientific revolutionaries
like Galileo, right? So, there's the, the, this kind
of brave, uh, you know, emblem of Galileo, uh,
the autonomous thinker alongside his telescope, right? But if
you, if you look into the sort of the
history of the telescope, what you find is that
the telescope, at least conceptually, uh, was invented as
a, as a result of two young boys sort
of fooling around in a Dutch lens maker's shop,
and they, you know, they put two lenses back
together and, and, and point them across the street
and see that this makes the house across the
street. Look bigger. OK. That's the conceptual insight that
you need for the telescope. And then, of course,
people latch on to this and, you know, start
making rudimentary telescopes for the, for the summer fairs
and so on. These telescopes start selling, and one
of them eventually gets back to Galileo. And, and
of course, he has this knowledge of, of optics
that allows him to make a much better version.
But I love this case because even autonomous Galileo,
right, sitting there with his With his telescope relied
on insights that that other people had.
Yeah, I mean, even looking at Newton's story, I
mean, he acknowledged, I think he was the one
who used that phrase standing on the shoulders of
giants. So I mean, even a 190 IQ person
was admitting that he relied a lot on the
work of other people.
That's right, that's a terrific example.
Uh, WHAT about, uh, humility then? I mean, in
what way should we be balanced when it comes
to humility and what are the respective vices?
Yeah, OK, so when it, when it comes to
humility, uh, one way to, to start is to
think about this as the virtue that we need
to own our intellectual limitations. Uh, Depending on how
we divide things up, we might also talk about,
uh, a corresponding virtue of what we might call
self-confidence, which is the virtue that we need to
own our, our intellectual strengths. So, uh, with respect
to humility, there, there are kind of, uh, multiple
elements of, of this. So first, we need to
be appropriately aware of our intellectual limitations, right? Appropriately
concerned with them, and then, and then accurately aware
of them, or at least reasonably aware of them,
and then we need to own them. So let's,
so let's walk through these. So, so there, there
are ways we can go wrong in being overly
concerned with our intellectual limitations or underly concerned, right,
with them, right? Not concerned enough. That'd be one
fault. Um, SO the, the, the vices of pride
and vanity, right, those might involve in various ways
our being overly or underly concerned with our, uh,
with our intellectual. Limitations. Think of the person who's
just obsessed with, with their limitations, but that, that's
not virtuous. And I suppose we get ourselves to
Um, to think about our intellectual capacities and strengths
and we, well, our weaknesses in this case, uh,
to the right extent, and we're looking at, well,
we want to be accurate when it comes to
assessing our, our intellectual weaknesses, right? We don't want
to think we're better than we are or that
we're, we're worse than we are when it comes
to intellectual activities. And now, now, finally, once we
have an accurate or at least reasonable assessment of
our intellectual limitations, we need to own them, right?
So if, if I'm just aware that, you know,
I tend to be intellectually sloppy, but then I
don't do anything about it. I don't count as
having the virtue of humility, right? So we have
to own. Those limitations and we might do that
in different ways, right? So sometimes we can do
something about our limitations. We can, we can reduce
those limitations. Maybe sometimes, you know, if we realize
we keep making a certain intellectual mistake. Through practice,
we can, we can stop making that mistake. Um,
IN other cases, we can't really. Uh, FIX our
tendencies toward mistakes, or at least it's really hard
to do that. That might be the case when
it comes to certain cognitive biases, right? There, instead
of, of working to change our, um, our minds,
what we need to do is find a workaround,
right? Instead of, of, of fixing those limitations, we
need to just account for them, um, even though
we can't fix them. Um, SO there's, there's, uh,
a nice case of this, uh, the, the Princeton
Philosophy department. Uh, RIGHT, once, uh, some of its
members became aware of all the cognitive biases that
can infect judgments that occur in job interviews, uh,
what they decided to do, and, you know, instead
of engaging in a kind of cognitive bias training
so that they can overcome their biases, what they
decided to do is work around that limitation by
removing the interview from the, um, you know, from
the candidating process. They started to just look at
the, at the job candidates files. Um, IN, in
other cases, we might not be able to correct
our biases or work around them. What we might
just have to do is, is, um, accept that
we have them, uh, reluctantly. And that goes for
other limitations as well, right? Maybe there's just not
much that we can do about this. Uh, SO
think about, um, The intrinsic limitations that we might
have, right? Not everybody is going to be able
to do theoretical physics, right? A person who works
as hard as you like to be able to
do that just might not be able to do
it. Uh, THAT person might have to accept that
limitation. And then uh move to another field, right?
So maybe a person can't do theoretical physics, but
can be a really excellent math teacher, even, even
a college, uh, math professor, right? Um, SOMETIMES we
just have to accept our limitations, right? So, so
owning our limitations might concern, uh, changing them, right,
uh, or it might concern accounting for them even
if we can't change them. It might concern uh
accepting them, and, and which one of those is
appropriate will depend on what's wise in a given
case.
Yeah, you know, humility is a very interesting virtue
for me personally because I mean you have a
particular manifestation of being too too humble, where you
have, for example, imposter syndrome, where people, it doesn't
matter how much you know, how much knowledge you
acquire, you're always questioning yourself and perhaps You get
stuck in terms of, oh I can't do anything
because I don't know enough. I can take one
step forward because I don't know enough, but then
on the other hand, when it comes to uh
lack of humility, arrogance, I mean, you have philosophers
like N Nietzsche in Ekehomo wrote chapters like why
I'm so clever, why I'm so wise, why I
write. Such excellent, and I'm, I, I, I laugh
a little bit at that because, I mean, he
was obviously an extremely intelligent person, but uh I
mean, and perhaps his arrogance to some extent served
him well because he was a very bold thinker,
but at the same time, I think, OK, perhaps
that's a bit too much arrogance there.
Yeah, yeah, that's right. And so there are multiple
ways to go wrong here. One of them is
arrogance, uh, you know, another is a kind of
Uh, self-deprecation, which, you know, I, I, I wouldn't
want to say that everybody who suffers with imposter
syndrome has the vice of self-deprecation. There might be
lots of factors that go into that, but at
any rate, we can, we can recognize that there
is a vice that lies in that, in that
direction, yeah.
Uh, HOW about honesty? I mean, and what does
honesty mean in the intellectual context?
Yeah, so this is an interesting virtue in, in
at least two ways that I'll mention. The first
is that, that when it comes to honesty, um,
Here Like, like nowhere else, it's less clear to
me that there's a, a, a, a clear distinction
to be drawn between the intellectual virtue and the
moral virtue of honesty. That's because both of these
virtues concern how we handle, uh, the truth, right?
Uh, HOW we handle the facts. The honest person
will refrain from distorting the facts or distorting the
truth. Um, AND, and here I'm just following the
work of, uh, Christian Miller. Uh, SO, so, so
there's something about The honest person that, that helps
them refrain from distorting the truth, distorting the facts.
Um, BUT of course, uh, the truth, uh, is
an intellectual good. Um, SO there's this intellectual component,
but of course, uh, lots of cases of lying
are, are moral failures as well. So that's, that's
one interesting feature of honesty is that it, it
seems to somehow combine both these intellectual and moral
elements. Another feature of honesty, uh, and, and Harold,
apart from, from Aristotle, Aristotle thinks of honesty as
a means, a mean between extremes. Um, IT'S not
clear to me that Uh, honesty is a mean
between extremes. Maybe it is, but it does, it
does seem odd. To think of um. You know,
the idea of someone distorting the, the facts or
the truth the right amount or to the right
degree or in the right way, right? Uh, IT'S
not clear to me that there's, there's a mean
here or someone who distorts the truth just enough,
right? Uh, IT, it seems to me like if
it's, if we're talking about, uh, you know, a,
a capacity for, um, For being faithful to the
truth, uh, that, that, uh, to depart from that
is already to move toward the vice.
I mean, honesty, perhaps in the moral realm, being
too honest would be a vice in the sense
that perhaps you do not care at all about
how you make other people feel by just being
er true by just telling the truth as it
is or at least the way you see it.
Yeah, that's a nice, that's a nice point. And,
and maybe what you're pointing to helps us to
Uh, see a difference between honesty in the moral
realm and, and in the intellectual realm. Maybe there
are cases in the, in the moral realm where,
uh, yeah, being perfectly forthright would be, uh, excessive
or something like that.
Let's talk now about the virtue of perseverance. I
mean, I guess that intellectually this seems a very
obvious virtue to have because, of course, particularly people
who are academics and even the ones who are
not academics who just like to learn by themselves.
I mean, of course, people to be a proper
intellectual. Have to put a lot of work and
a lot of time into acquiring knowledge, into, uh,
I mean, acquiring proper knowledge into thinking into acquiring
critical thinking skills and all of that. So it
takes a lot of perseverance to become a proper
intellectual, right,
right. Yeah, I think that's right. So, and a
good way to see it again is to think
about paradigm cases. So think about Newton or Einstein,
uh, think about the intellectual work that the American
suffragists did. Uh, THINK about yourself writing a, a
paper or learning about a discipline in, uh, in
college. These are difficult tasks. These are tasks that
present. OBSTACLES to our getting knowledge or to our
keeping It or to are sharing it with others,
those goods, we require perseverance to, to push past
those obstacles or to encounter those obstacles in the
right way, you know, and, and this, this holds
in intellectual cases. So think about the perseverance it
took Newton, you know, to invent the calculus that
he needed for his physics, for instance. Uh, THIS
also, you know, applies in everyday cases. You think
about someone who's You know, dealing with an automobile
that won't start. As you think through the, uh,
what's causing that, probably there are multiple possible explanations.
Uh, YOU have to work out what's the best
explanation of this in order to get at the
true explanation and fix your car. Um, THERE are
all kinds of obstacles that might arise in the
course of that diagnosis. So, so precisely because our
lives in general and our intellectual lives in particular.
Um, ARE just fraught with obstacles toward getting knowledge
or keeping it or sharing it. Uh, WE need
intellectual perseverance.
Mhm. What about intellectual courage? I mean, what is
the proper kind of courage that an intellectual needs?
Yeah, good. So, so at least as I think
of this, courage is a kind of species of
perseverance. Maybe not everybody agrees with this. But at
least as I think of it, uh, courage, uh,
intellectual courage is the virtue that we need to
encounter. Well, those obstacles, so there's perseverance of the
sort that are fearsome or threatening. So think of,
uh, you know, someone, let's say a social justice
advocate, speaking the truth in the face of threats.
That's a paradigm case of intellectual courage in action,
right? So that this person is trying to convey
intellectual goods of truth and knowledge and understanding, despite
the fact that this person is being threatened in,
in various ways. So the, the area of activity
for intellectual courage. IS, is persisting in the face
of threats or, or things that are uh that
make us afraid.
Mhm. Uh, I mean, you, you, you mentioned, um,
an activist, uh, it's interesting. Do, do you think
that perhaps there, um, there's another kind of, uh,
thing that we should consider in here that has
to do with A conviction because of course, to
have courage, you have to have a certain level
of conviction in your own beliefs, in your own
knowledge. But do you think that that's uh there's
a case to be made that sometimes you are
too convinced of your own knowledge and perhaps that
may turn into ideology or something like that.
That's right. So, so, I mean, as, as Aristotle
puts it, you know, we should fear the right
things. And in, in intellectual activities, one of the
things we should fear is being misled, right? So
to be courageous is not to be without fear.
Uh, IT'S not to, uh, never encounter threats. It's
to, if we think of fear, uh, you know,
fear the right things at the right times in
the right ways for the right reasons. And so
someone could really stick to their guns in defending
views. That are false and that they should know
are false because they haven't been adequately attentive to
this danger of You know, being misled. So that
would be to exhibit a kind of rashness, right,
to, to not fear something, uh, you know, in
the intellectual realm that this person should fear.
Mhm. Uh, HOW about open mindedness and firmness? I
mean, particularly when it comes to open mindedness, what
is, uh, a proper level of open-mindedness? Because I,
I mean, if you have, if your ideas are
too fixed, that's bad, but you can also be
too open minded and just accept any kind of
idea if even if it's wrong.
That's right. That's right. So, so, at least as
I'm thinking of this, open-mindedness is the, the virtue
that we need to consider the merits of, um,
other views or new views or views that are
contrary to ours. Um, Here I'm following, uh, people
like, um, you know, Jason Bear, among others. Um,
INTELLECTUAL firmness has to do with sort of maintaining
our own beliefs, right? Um. So the, these, these
virtues pair very nicely together. They probably, uh, you
know, converge in a lot of real-world cases. But
take open-mindedness, for instance, uh, that's a, a kind
of willing ability to consider the merits of, of
views that are, are new or that are contrary
to our own. Um, SO think about that, considering
the, the merits of those views. So, if those
views have no merits, or if we have no
reason to think they have any merit, Then if
we're open to them, then we're, we're being excessively
open. We're being indiscriminate. So if we take really
seriously, uh, there's this conspiracy theory that birds aren't
real, right? That would be indiscriminate, right? But then
we can also be closed-minded and fail to take
seriously views that really do have some, some merit,
right? And, and that might be because we're dogmatic.
It might be because we're indifferent, but there's that
vice of closed-mindedness that's the deficiency here. Um, ONE
thing that we should, we should mention, maybe we
haven't mentioned this in enough detail so far, as
we seek to find, um, you know, what we
might call the mean between vices, right, as we
seek in this case to find the mean between
the deficiency of closed-mindedness and the excess of kind
of indiscriminateness, um, we're not just seeking a kind
of middle ground or a Goldilocks zone between too
little and too much. Um, A, a more structured
way to think of this is to think of
being open to the, you know, the right, the
right, uh, kinds of claims at the right times
and in the right ways and, and for the
right reasons. So there's a little more structure to
this, um, and in this way, that, you know,
people who talk about intellectual virtues are modeling. Intellectual
virtues on Aristotelian moral virtues, right? So Aristotle says
the virtuous act is the one that we do,
we do the right thing at the right time
in the right way, you know, for the right,
for the right reason. Um, AND so to talk
about virtues like open-mindedness, you know, we need to
sort of go through each of those items, uh,
carefully. Maybe we don't have space to do that
today. But that gives it a little more structure
than this kind of vague, oh, not too much,
not too little.
Mhm. Yeah, as I said, I mean, at least
in my understanding, you can be too open minded,
but open mindedness tends to be a good intellectual
trait to have also because if we consider that
knowledge is changing all the time in the sciences
and philosophy and so on, I mean, it's, I,
I think it's generally a good trait to have
to be open to considering new. Ideas and considering
that perhaps if you insist too much on old
knowledge you're stuck in your ways of thinking and
you have to perhaps update yourself a little bit
more and also I guess that even when it
comes to morality it's also a good trick to
be open open minded because I mean for example
when it comes to civil rights and. So on,
um, I mean, being able to consider the perspectives
of other people that live in ways or think
in ways that are different from your own and
still treat them as human beings and think that
they should also have their human rights and so
on. I mean, at least for me personally, it
seems like a proper trait to have.
That that seems exactly right to me. I, I
couldn't have put it better.
Mhm. Uh, SO, and finally we have fair-mindedness and
charity, so explain those virtues.
Yeah, so, so fair-mindedness and charity, uh, they, they,
in a way piggyback on open-mindedness. So suppose we're
open-minded and we decide, OK, I'm gonna consider the
merits of these new or opposing views. Uh, CHARITY
and fairness help us to take the next step
and to do that well. So think about a
view that opposes, you know, my own view. Uh,
IT might be tempting. Because it's comfortable for me,
you know, to continue to hold my own views.
It might be tempting to sort of, um, treat
that view or the person who holds that view
in, in ways that I wouldn't treat myself or
my own views, right? I might, um, set a
higher bar of argumentative quality for, uh, accepting another
person's view than I do my own. Well, of
course, that's a lack of fairness. I'm not being
evenhanded there, um. So that that kind of lack
of fairness is um is a vice, um, that,
that kind of vice. Um, IT'S something we see
all over the place in our, our civil disc,
well, I should say civic discourse. Um, IT'S not
always very civil. But fair-mindedness is required to treat
other views well once we say we're open enough
to considering them. Uh, THERE'S a, a handy rule
that we might think of here, and, and this
is a rule that, that we get from morality,
and then I'm kind of incorporating or, or importing
to the intellectual realm. So think about what's, uh,
what's called the silver rule, right? Don't do to
others what you wouldn't want them to do to
you. If we, if, if we import this into
the intellectual realm, then it's something like, well, in
intellectual matters, right? When we're trying to get the
truth or keep it or share it, we shouldn't
do to other people and their views, uh, things
that we wouldn't want done to us, right? So,
uh, set up, you know, a straw man argument
or, you know, mischaracterize the other person's view to
make it look weaker than it is. We wouldn't
want those things done to us, right? And so,
Uh, that's a, that's an obvious thing to say,
but it's amazing how often we run afoul of
that principle. Uh, CHARITY, I think, goes beyond fairness.
And so this is another kind of case where,
where, uh, going beyond, as in the case of,
you know, like honesty, intellectual honesty anyway, uh, needn't
be a vice. So, we could go beyond fairness.
If we not just characterize the other person's view
or argument accurately. But if we um cast it
in its best reasonable light, right? If we um
are willing to, to, to sort of steel man,
this is the common term, steel man, the other
person's argument, make it the, the best it can
be, right? And, and that's a, that's a, a
very important uh kind of thing to do an
inquiry because that allows us to see. Not just
the views that are out there, but the, the,
the best views and the best arguments that there
could be. Um, THAT I think brings us closer
to the truth and it's also a way to
show respect and even love for other inquirers, right?
And so, so going beyond fairness um can really
be a good thing.
OK, so just one final question, and this, I
mean, I mean, I guess it would be sort
of a final message from you. So, uh, and,
and this is going back to the point we
touched on earlier about how intellectual virtues apply not
only to the intellectual life of people but also
their personal life and their Political life, their social
life, and so on. I mean, uh, because someone,
even after listening to this entire interview should still
say, oh, OK, but I'm, you know, I'm not
an intellectual. I don't really care that much about
that, about intellectual virtues and so on. Why should
I read Dr. King's book? I mean, uh, what
would you say to them?
Yeah, well, I mean, without, without plugging the, the
book too much, let me just plug the, the
virtues that the book talks about. I mean, one
way to think of this um is in terms
of a dinner table conversation. So, you know, tomorrow,
uh, in America, we're, we're celebrating Thanksgiving. And, you
know, there's this uh uh common occurrence at American
Thanksgiving dinner tables where someone, usually it's somebody's uncle,
starts talking about politics and carries on in a
way that's really not winsome, right? That's, that's unfair
to other views or uncharitable or that's arrogant or
something like that. And so one thing I would
say is that these intellectual virtues, right, if more
of us seek them, are the kinds of things
that will make us have better conversations over Thanksgiving
dinner, and who could be against that?
OK, so let's see if someone during in Thanksgiving
applies or tries to apply some of these virtues
when discussing with their uncle, uncle, and other people
in their family.
Let's hope for that. It, it'll be, it'll be,
uh, you know, all I can do to make
sure that I'm not, uh, you know, committing acts
of intellectual vice around the, uh, the table myself.
So I think we all have to start with
ourselves rather than, than starting with other folks.
Great, so the book is again the Excellent Mind,
Intellectual Virtues for Everyday Life. I'm of course leaving
a link to it in the description of the
interview and Doctor King, er, are there any places
on the internet where people can find you and
your work?
Uh, YEAH, so I have a, a website that's
just, uh, Nathan, I think it's Nathan-ing.org, but if
you just look up Nathan L. King philosophy, uh,
you'll probably find it. Uh, The Excellent Mind is
available on the Oxford University Press website. I'll be
able to send a link to that site shortly,
and it's available at other online booksellers as well.
Great. So thank you so much for taking the
time to come on the show. It's been a
very fun conversation.
Thanks again for having me. I, I really enjoyed
this.
Hi guys, thank you for watching this interview until
the end. If you liked it, please share it,
leave a like and hit the subscription button. The
show is brought to you by Enlights Learning and
Development done differently. Check their website at enlights.com and
also please consider supporting the show on Patreon or
PayPal. I would also like to give a huge
thank you to my main patrons and PayPal supporters,
Perergo Larsson, Jerry Muller, Frederick Sundo, Bernard Seyaz Olaf,
Alex, Adam Cassel, Matthew Whittingbird, Arnaud Wolf, Tim Hollis,
Eric Elena, John Connors, Philip Forrest Connolly. Then Dmitri
Robert Windegerru Inai Zu Mark Nevs, Colin Holbrookfield, Governor,
Michel Stormir, Samuel Andrea, Francis Forti Agnun, Svergoo, and
Hal Herzognon, Michel Jonathan Labrarinth, John Yardston, and Samuel
Curric Hines, Mark Smith, John Ware, Tom Hammel, Sardusran,
David Sloan Wilson, Yasilla Dezaraujo Romain Roach, Diego Londono
Correa. Yannik Punteran Ruzmani, Charlotte Blis Nicole Barbaro, Adam
Hunt, Pavlostazevski, Alekbaka, Madison, Gary G. Alman, Semov, Zal
Adrian Yei Poltontin, John Barboza, Julian Price, Edward Hall,
Edin Bronner, Douglas Fry, Franco Bartolotti, Gabriel P Scortez
or Suliliski, Scott Zachary Fish, Tim Duffy, Sony Smith,
and Wisman. Daniel Friedman, William Buckner, Paul Georg Jarno,
Luke Lovai, Georgios Theophanus, Chris Williamson, Peter Wolozin, David
Williams, Di Acosta, Anton Ericsson, Charles Murray, Alex Shaw,
Marie Martinez, Coralli Chevalier, Bangalore atheists, Larry D. Lee
Junior. Old Eringbon. Esterri, Michael Bailey, then Spurber, Robert
Grassy, Zigoren, Jeff McMahon, Jake Zul, Barnabas Raddix, Mark
Kempel, Thomas Dovner, Luke Neeson, Chris Story, Kimberly Johnson,
Benjamin Galbert, Jessica Nowicki, Linda Brendan, Nicholas Carlson, Ismael
Bensleyman. George Ekoriati, Valentine Steinmann, Per Crawley, Kate Van
Goler, Alexander Obert, Liam Dunaway, BR, Massoud Ali Mohammadi,
Perpendicular, Jannes Hetner, Ursula Guinov, Gregory Hastings, David Pinsov,
Sean Nelson, Mike Levin, and Jos Necht. A special
thanks to my producers Iar Webb, Jim Frank Lucas
Stinnik, Tom Vanneden, Bernardine Curtis Dixon, Benedict Mueller, Thomas
Trumbull, Catherine and Patrick Tobin, John Carlo Montenegro, Al
Nick Cortiz, and Nick Golden, and to my executive
producers, Matthew Lavender, Sergio Quadrian, Bogdan Kanis, and Rosie.
Thank you for all.